Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
You're about to meet Dr. Scott Reynolds, Dr. Scotty, as he's known on his website and as the author of his recent book.
It would take hours of Veterans of the Valley to tell of all of the chapters of his life so far.
His service in the Navy, 14 years in the Army, his fascinating career as an Army veterinarian after graduating from A&M class of 58, service in Guam in Korea, his service as the state epidemiologist for Texas.
Oh, and then two tours of Hollywood.
The first when he met his wife, Lorraine, and the second when he returned to pursue acting, his 16 commercials, and the heartbreak of the cutting room floor.
Let's meet the multifaceted Dr. Scott Reynolds of Bryan.
Fascinating career, and we'll try to get to as much of it as we can.
You grew up in Kilgore in East Texas, and after you got out finishing Kilgore, studying wasn't the thing that you wanted to do, so you went into the Navy in 1948, found yourself in Guam and eventually Korea.
Let's just sort of take it from there and sort of your Navy service
and how that got started and what happened in Guam and Korea?
Well, of course, they trained me to work on airplanes.
Yes, sir.
And we knew that the Korean thing was kind of looming a little bit.
And so I volunteered and was a family of Navy people.
My daddy was in the Navy in the first war.
And so I, right off the bat, got sent to a transport squadron out in the islands and volunteered to go to Guam.
Because I wanted to see some tropical stuff and some orchids from the trees and all that kind of stuff.
So I went to Guam and was having a big time.
until one evening we went to the movie.
In those days, we didn't have indoor theaters.
We had to watch a movie on the side of a hill with a poncho and a helmet on to keep the rain off of us.
We had been to the movie that evening, and I walked back on the base.
I was at NES again, a naval air station again in Guam, and we had machine guns all around.
I said, uh-oh, I'm into trouble.
And the North Koreans had eight hours away flying time.
It just invaded South Korea, so we were all put on alert.
And because we were a transport squadron, we were thrown in
line to do, we were hauling supplies.
And the thing that really was the most important, we were hauling wounded back because anytime you have a war, you're going to get a lot of wounded.
And so we were working on planes and we would fly our planes into Kempo airfield in Korea.
pick up 40 or 50 wounded guys, which really was a shock to me from being from East Texas.
Yes, sir.
To see kids that look just like me, young kids with nine and 10 holes in them, arms missing, or we even have them in casts.
And it really was a shock.
And night after night, plane after plane, we would be bringing these kids back.
Right.
And it was quite a thing, but I was very proud of
I'm not really a hero.
There's a lot of guys that are much better heroes than I am, but I'm very proud that we never lost a plane.
I used to worry at night that a plane would go down on the way to Honolulu with a kid on there with a cast that he would drown.
So we did our thing.
Things weren't going good for a while in Korea, and the Chinese came in and were pushing the Marines all the way back to the end of the peninsula.
If you know anything about Korea, it's the peninsula, and they were pushing them all the way down to the end, and they had a plan
Then they asked for volunteers and being some young guy from East Texas and thought I could volunteer, I volunteered to go and they were going to fly us into the end of the peninsula at a little airfield that later on I went to Korea and was stationed there called K-9 and we were going to
put us in there, and we were going to work on the planes as they came in and hauled Marines back to safety.
Of course, we would have been the last ones out.
And I don't know what would have happened, but what saved us was MacArthur, General MacArthur, had a plan to go into Inchon, and he cut them off and saved us.
So that's the closest I've been to being a hero.
Fascinating career there.
And then after this service in Korea, it was after that that you came back.
I came to Texas A&M to be a veterinarian.
I came here on the Korean GI Bill.
In the meantime, I met this good-looking blue-eyed gal from Hollywood.
in a church, in a church group in Hollywood Presbyterian, Hollywood Wilshire Presbyterian Church.
Met Lorraine at a Halloween party.
At a Halloween party and she was a student at Southern Cal University where they played pretty good football.
And we had seen them play a football game that day against TCU and
And so I was out rooting for TCU to get to Southern County.
And that night, I said, anybody here go to Southern County?
They said, she did.
And that's how we met.
And then she came back here with me.
And we lived here and had two children.
Our first freshman year in Prevent had twin daughters.
Uh-huh.
And I loved A&M.
I guess I couldn't have made it anywhere else.
You were in California, I believe, in San Diego, part of the utility squadron.
That's right.
I didn't tell you about my utility squadron.
This was in 1951.
When I came back from overseas, they put me in the utility squadron.
I guess that's the only time I've ever been shot at.
We were pulling a target and they would shoot at the target.
So that's my war deal.
So you and Lorraine came from Hollywood to College Station.
That's right.
And where you went to Texas A&M from 52 to 58, and you became a veterinarian.
Talk about what A&M was like there in the mid-50s.
Obviously, quite a bit different than it is now.
Country.
There was nothing here.
I don't even think there was a...
motel here.
It may have been one.
And there was one drugstore, a Black's Drugstore down here where all the vet students used to stop going out on cow calls.
And we'd get a cup of coffee there, but there was nothing here.
We lived in College View over there.
And being a veteran, I don't know how A&M was today, but if you're a veteran, A&M welcomes here with open arms,
Put me right in school, gave me a place to stay for $33 a month.
Wow.
Over here at College View, the old College View.
Right.
And I worked.
I want to put a plug in for Dr. Kunkel.
Dr. Kunkel knew I was instituted, and he later on became dean of that culture department.
Right.
And Dr. Conkle gave me a job, and I worked for him messing up his experiments.
And I did about everything.
I tutored for Bear Bryant.
Yeah, I want to talk about that.
I met the bear.
I guess he was here a week, and I went there and talked to him about a football player up in my hometown.
Tell us about that.
You had a recruiting tip for him that he didn't think about.
I had a recruiting tip for him, and there's an old boy named Bob Buston who happens to still live in Kilgore.
Mm-hmm.
And I said, there's a big old boy up there.
You ought to recruit his name, Bob Buston.
So he had his stud book there, and he was under the stadium in those days.
And I think we only had 35,000 seats in that thing.
And it was real raw, you know.
And so I went in there, and he looked at his stud book.
He said, I don't have his name on here.
Who recommended him?
I said, my cousin's a farmer.
He said, oh, get out of here.
Well, the guy went to Baylor and made all Southwest Conference and killed us.
And he made a great football player named Bob Buster.
Baylor Baron.
I think that's real good.
We're playing Baylor sometime coming up.
That's right.
He should have taken your word for that.
Your wife, I believe, had a job at Bryan Air Force Base also.
So things were going well.
Well, she had her first job over here at the old administration building.
It's on the quadrangle.
Pink brick building.
cost from MSC.
She worked in there for about $140 a month or something.
I don't remember what it was.
And then later on, as I got in vet school, I couldn't work as much.
And so I was trying to struggle to get through that.
And so we had two babies.
So she worked at Bryan Air Force Base.
And then she worked at the housing office.
It used to be a Quonset hut over next to
the College View, and she worked there.
And so we all had jobs.
I parked cars and tutored and graded papers and mowed lawns and worked.
And the last job I had was I painted the veterinary school.
Is that right?
And incidentally, I was the last class that studied veterinary medicine on the campus.
I see.
So it was when you were here that they moved over to West Campus.
I was a freshman and the seniors walked the horses and the cows across the railroad track past Loop Otson.
Right on.
Right.
Now, after you got out of A&M, you wanted to be a veterinarian.
You still wanted to be in the service.
The Navy didn't really have a program to veterinarian, so you joined the Army.
I joined the Army Veterinary Corps.
And a fascinating career.
Just start from there and just sort of talk about some of the places that you went, the things that you did as an Army veterinarian.
And I think a lot of people will really be surprised of the facets of what a job of a veterinarian is.
It's not just taking care of
dogs and cats.
There was a lot involved with that, especially as it pertained to being in the service.
Talk about it.
The reason, and they'll say, what do you need veterinarians for?
If you think about it, what we eat is our patients.
So we know more about their diseases.
So we did food inspection.
And we had dogs and we had horses and, you know, we were in clinics.
And I taught school.
I taught in the quartermaster school, I taught chemistry and dairy science and all sorts of things like that.
I was...
I was in biological warfare for four years at Fort Detrick, and we were studying the effects of radiation on the infectious process.
The Army sent me to graduate school, University of North Carolina.
I'm at Tar Heel.
Got my master's from University of North Carolina.
There I went to a tall school.
I was in biological warfare, and I guess probably the most interesting place was the Nevada test site.
They sent me out there and I was studying effects of underground testing.
Strontium 90 uptake and then I'd go around and talk to farmers and ranchers about different things.
I had a study one time where we were studying effects of underground testing on cows on the ground, whether it would break their legs.
So I had a study where we did a bunch of cows and lined them up 700 feet from ground zero, 1,400 and 2,800 feet from ground zero with a Stanford Institute camera on them.
and we blew these cows up in the air and didn't hurt them.
Folks, SPCA don't get on me.
We didn't hurt these cows.
In fact, they were better off than I was.
So I did that and then spent some time in Korea and went out on missile sites, took care of the German shepherds, had a little clinic there, and my men inspected the food.
Right, now that leads us to another story to where you had to sort of stick by your guns a little bit as far as when you declared, what, 340,000 pounds of beef medically unfit.
Tell us about that story and the political battle you had to fight.
General Tommy Murnane, who is an Aggie,
General Tommy Bernays sent me to Germany.
And at the time, I didn't want to go.
I wanted to go earlier than that, but my girls were in medical school.
Both my twins are MDs.
And they were in medical school, and I really didn't want to leave.
I was a post veterinarian at Fort Jackson, South Carolina Infantry.
so he said well it's time for you to go and i said okay i've been wanting to go but i didn't really want to go now so i went to germany and i was the head veterinarian for the army air force exchange system or px as we know it right and uh you say well what is he doing that i said well i had a lot to do because these veterinarians that worked for the medical i was company veterinarian i worked for the px but we had veterinarians out there worked with with surgeon general worked for the surgeon general and they inspected every
thing that we ate, the troops ate.
And I had an office and really hardship in Munich.
Tough job, somebody's got to do it.
And I had a job in Munich and a guy called me one day and he says, currently he said, we've got a problem.
He says, we've got 350,000 pounds of beef.
It's 50 pound box, it's frozen.
And they'd take that frozen beef and dump it in a huge vat as big as that, from here to that wall, and then put soot in and ground it up and make hamburger meat out of it.
And whatever was in that meat is what we ate.
We didn't rework it.
So it was not thawed out.
It was ground up frozen.
So a guy called me up and he said, we got some problem with a shipment of 350,000 pounds of beef, and I found a lot of stuff in it.
And I said, okay, I'll put a medical hole in it.
Well, in the Army,
A veterinarian, a medical officer, when they put a hole, that is it.
There's no organ.
Nobody's going to go over it, but there's a lot of people that don't like it.
So I went there and told the general, and I sit right through the right of the general, and I told him, I said, we got a problem with this beef.
It's a government-owned product, and we own it, but I'm not going to let them use it.
He says, you've got a lot of problems.
But he says, I want you to hang in there and you stick by your guns because you're going to catch a lot of pressure from Dallas.
That was headquarters.
Right.
You're going to catch a lot of pressure and you hang in there.
And I hung in there for over 60 days.
It was just the knockdown drag out of what we were going to do.
And I knew that I was in problems.
And so I better go up.
And so I pulled it and checked it over and it was terrible.
Right.
It had cow manure in it, tea bags, bone, hair, skin, whatever else you could name.
And so I decided, well, that we're going to stay with it.
So one day I get a call from General Tommy Murnane, good Aggie.
I told you he'd been in a kiddie core, a wonderful young man, I call him.
Right.
He called me up and he said, Scotty, he says, what do you find?
He said, I'm getting a lot of pressure from him.
people back here, and he said, what did you find?
And I told him, and I won't go through the whole conversation with you, but I told him what all was in there.
And he said, okay, I just wanted to hear from you.
And that's all I ever heard from him.
And so
We hung in there, and one day I get a call from my counterpart in Dallas, who was the veterinarian there, and he said, well, they took the CID out of somewhere in a veterinarian out of Camp Pope and sent them up to Bayonne, New Jersey.
There was another ship ready to come over to you, another 350,000 pounds.
And they pulled a sample, and guess what they found?
The same thing you did, which relieved me.
And...
But as I told you the other day, that wasn't the end of the story.
Like Paul Harvey said, that's not the end of the story.
Yeah, you eventually found a home for the beef, right?
We found a home over in Yugoslavia.
I hate to say this.
I hope this doesn't go to Yugoslavia.
So they bought that beef to thaw it out and make goulash out of it.
I think we sold it to them about 15 cents a pound, something like that.
So the government lost money on the deal.
We were always doing things like that.
We made ice cream out of dehydrated fat.
and powdered milk, and we'd put it together to make ice cream.
So we borrowed all that stuff from Holland, different country, and I was involved with things like that where we would, in fact, I fined Holland $25,000 one time for not going by the contract, but it was a lot of fun.
Indeed, indeed.
When you were out east, we may be backtracking or moving forward, I'm not sure, but you were in dairy science in Virginia.
You took care of the general's dogs there, and Fort Jackson, also South Carolina, too, right?
Well, I was working for my good friend.
If he's watching this on television, Colonel Jim Moore lives over here.
He's an Aggie, and he was my boss, and we had been friends in Korea.
They all tie together with it.
And I was teaching school for him.
He's a quartermaster, and I was teaching school for him out at Fort Lee, Virginia.
And I taught dairy science.
I taught chemistry.
both organic and organic chemistry, to the Quartermaster officers.
They were all college graduates.
They were going to be food people for the Quartermaster.
Quartermaster feeds everybody.
So I was teaching them.
And one of the minor jobs I had, which you alluded to a while ago, is I taught the generals how to take care of the general's dog, which wasn't, I want to say that wasn't my main job, but that was one of the things I did.
Interesting enough, the cook that talked there had been General MacArthur's cook.
Oh, really?
Yeah, he was kind of a fascinating guy to talk to.
I bet he was.
When you were in Fort Jackson, South Carolina, I believe you said that your boss was the father of General William Caldwell, who is currently the chief military spokesman in Iraq.
General Caldwell III, who was an Aggie and West Point graduate, one of the finest men I ever met, infantry.
Mm-hmm.
And some lady found some bad shrimp in the commissary, and she'd gotten sick.
And so she didn't wait till Monday.
She went over to his quarters on Sunday afternoon, and the general was back taking a nap.
And he knocked on the door, and this young man answered the door.
And said, well, my daddy is asleep back.
And she walked right past him, went back and rousted him out of bed.
And, of course, I got put on that little job on Monday.
And it was a lot of fun.
It wasn't anything to it.
It was just some outdated stuff.
And did a little epidemiology.
I'm an epidemiologist, so I did a little epidemiology study on it.
And she'd been drinking too much and eating too much out of the...
refrigerator and it wasn't a shrimp but i took care of it and the the little boy that answered the door is general caldwell the fourth right in iraq right i saw him the other day he looks just like his father he is he's the chief military spokesman in iraq right now and his daddy was one of the finest men i ever knew indeed
You eventually came back to Fort Hood and eventually back to Texas A&M, I know, where you became, retired from the Army and became the state epidemiologist for the state of Texas.
So obviously a very interesting job.
That was probably harder than being what I did in Germany.
because I went into a problem.
We were having Bruce Lottises.
And I used to say it was caused by Bruce Lottis Variety Politicus.
A lot of politics in it.
Nobody understood it.
We couldn't understand it.
We were killing too many cows.
And I had a professor here named Trevino who had taught me a wonderful...
guy, he had a PhD in pathology, and he had recommended me for this job to, as a state, I wasn't a state epidemiologist at the time.
Right.
But, so I went to work for him, and I was the first board-certified epidemiologist to go to work for him.
Indeed.
And so, John Holcomb, who was the head man, who was an A&M graduate, and who was a senior when I was a freshman.
Right.
Felt like we needed to bring specialists in, had some education to work on this problem because we weren't getting anywhere.
We were killing a lot of cows that we didn't need to kill.
And so I didn't know anything about the disease, but I had a good background.
And I had been in biological warfare and I liked bacteria and virus problems and everything.
So I went to work for them.
And my late of fame is I put Texas A&M under quarantine and the King's Ranch under quarantine.
And I had Dolph Briscoe under quarantine and just A.J.
Foyt.
I worked with all of them.
So you're a real popular fellow.
Well, I say I put them under quarantine.
Really, my job was to get them out from under quarantine.
The federal government put them under quarantine.
But my job was to go in there and work with them.
I didn't have to go by the federal regulations.
I could go by what I knew about the disease.
That's what made the thing work.
And it was flexible and I could write a herd plan that was customized for your ranch.
I don't want to run out of time before we talk about the other facet of your career.
And that was when you and your wife Lorraine actually went back to Hollywood and really haven't been back from Hollywood that long.
You got into acting.
You got into theater.
You did 16 commercials.
Just sort of take it from there and sort of talk about that facet that came along later in your career.
Well, I was, you know, Victoria, I have a big interest in the Boy Scouts.
I work with, I'm a volunteer in the Boy Scouts, and I was a scoutmaster, and I used to do drama in my court of honors.
Right.
And I got...
to directing and then I got involved with acting I had done some acting in high school and I did a play here when I was at A&M I see Mr. Roberts I played in Mr. Roberts right over here right and so I got involved with it and one day somebody says you know you ought to make commercials so I got
I got off making commercials, and my first commercial I made was in 1991.
It was for an independent insurance agency, and it was the commercial that did the Houston Open.
I see, yeah.
It was in four spots, and that was the first commercial I ever did, and I really liked that.
I really liked being on that camera, you know?
And so I did another one, and then I came back here and worked some.
I had an agent in Houston.
And I made the, I guess the most famous one here was the Randall's Tom Thumb commercial.
I was the tomato man.
Had a big tomato about that big.
As a matter of fact, I'll tell you what, we've got a picture from that commercial.
This is a good time to go to just a couple of photographs that you supplied to us.
So let's go ahead and do that right now.
We've got a couple of pictures here.
And you can look right there and see that's a... Well, that's a good-looking guy.
That's a young Scotty Reynolds.
Now, when was that taken?
That was taken... You see, I'm rated.
I got promoted in Guam.
Right.
Yeah, that was my third-class petty officer, and I was feeling my rank about that time.
I bet you were.
Nice-looking young sailor.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now I think we've got, now here's sort of a photograph from that commercial that you talk about.
I think people might look at that and might say, oh yeah, I've seen that before.
So that was done in California, is that right?
No, we shot this commercial in Chapel Hill.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, we shot this commercial in Chapel Hill and that tomato there, it cost, you guys are in the business, it cost $500 to fabricate that thing.
But that was probably the best commercial I ever made.
I worked all day long.
I worked early in the morning until midnight.
The thing was shot at night.
If anybody remembers seeing that commercial, I think the best part of it, I was in a tomato
patch and I'm getting worms off the tomatoes to show that Randall's or Tom Thumbs didn't let worms get on the tomatoes.
That's one that, but I guess, as I told you, the Donkey Kong 64 commercial was shot in front of Universal Studios in Hollywood.
I shot that in front of the Back to the Future, where they shot the lightning come down.
I shot that in front of that.
I played a Georgia
State trooper with a big, smoky bear hat, and I'm up here talking.
We believe there are five perpetrators, about 25 people throwing bananas and peaches behind or whatever it was.
I remember that one.
Yeah, and I made one for Amazon.com.
We were singing Mitch Miller songs, Christmas songs on a big drum, and that was shot over on Sony.
I shot one for HotJobs.com, two Texas hot tub and a big hat, and it didn't run it.
There were a few of those that got left on the cutting room floor.
I got clicked.
I don't know what happened to me.
I just got clicked on one in August.
I was in Hollywood in August, and I got cast for the Secure Horizons Old Soldier.
I really wanted to do that.
He kind of gave a salute, and the general went by.
I kind of felt like it was my life.
And they had me all cast and ready to do it, and I was in Albuquerque ready to fly back and film it, and they canceled it.
So I'm not very lucky.
We told people from the outset that you were also an author, and I think we've got a picture of the cover of the book that you've written that we'll show folks here.
There it is right there.
Dr. Scotty's Health Tips for Dogs and Cats.
This is a recently published book.
Talk a little bit about that.
Obviously, it does what the title says it does.
It gives you tips about raising your pets.
Well, I'm kind of excited about it.
I feel like people that have dogs and cats, if they know how to take care of them, then they'll make them healthy, and they'll save them on their vet bill.
And so what I've tried to teach in this book, and as I was telling you while ago, it's a textbook for the layperson.
It's written as a textbook.
And it's funny.
I talk about a little bit of time when I was at A&M and when I was in East Texas and when I was in the Army and different times.
But what I try to do is teach people how to give a physical examination once a month where they check the animal's eyes and the pulse and their breathing and the lymph nodes and the skin so they can pick up disease early and know when to go to the vet.
And also it teaches them how to give CPR to a dog or a cat, how to deliver puppies.
If you want to take a trip, get my book, and I'll tell you every disease or every problem you're going to have on your trip to the United States.
Quite a handy book.
I know that when you were in Hollywood, you got a chance to get to know people who we regard now as celebrities.
I think you said you and your wife, Lorraine, were pretty good friends, went to church with Jimmy Stewart.
Yeah, Jimmy Stewart was a gentleman.
He was a good Christian man.
He went to church every Sunday, and he just loved my wife.
Jimmy was the kind of guy, when he talked to you the whole time,
both your hands, and he loved to talk.
He was just a gentleman.
Last time I saw Jimmy, he was talking about the King James version to a friend of mine who was a choir director who happened to be a Baylor graduate.
So Jimmy was a gentleman.
I guess I knew him for about a year or so, and just as easy to talk to.
I guess we met everybody.
Just about, I've met Charlton Heston two or three times, and Marina O'Hare, and some of these people probably don't know who these people are.
It was a fascinating career, but believe it or not, we're out of time.
Like I said from the outset, we can go hours and hours.
But thank you for your service, and thank you for just a life wonderfully lived.
Thank you.
Thanks for having me.
So what's next for Dr. Scott Reynolds?
He's officially retired, but not hardly.
He still has a passion for just about everything.
His new book, his website, dogs, cats, his wife, his twin daughters, his granddaughter, and as he should be, and we are, he is proud of his service to our country.
We salute Dr. Scotty Reynolds for that service.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.